young freshman or as an undergraduate?
Well, it was pretty awesome to sit there in the midst of those people.
And, you know, I didn't know a lot of the names that they called.
Of course, there were student names that we had been familiar with at Silver Taps earlier in the year.
But just hearing a few names that rang a bell that meant something that I had...
a contact with made it meaningful.
But the simple idea that these people whose names were being called, they were right in the same place where I was at one time.
I'm going through the exact same thing they went through.
It just brought it all home that this is why we're here.
This is what we're all about is we care about each other.
And I didn't really comprehend the full muster tradition as to what it is with all the meetings around the world and all that.
You don't really get into that much until you get out of school unless you happen to be in an Aggie family that goes to them to start with.
And it really, I think it helped me grow up a lot.
Commencement for you, what was it like?
Family came?
Oh, yeah, and my brother and my dad had to practically carry my grandmother up to the top of G. Raleigh White because, of course, they didn't get there real early and most of the seats were already taken, but she wasn't going to miss it.
It was real meaningful to me.
I lost my mother while I was finishing school and also my grandfather on her side.
And I can remember sitting there and thoughts going through my mind about how much she wanted to see that day and how much it meant to her.
how without her prodding and pushing and all, I probably never would have been there.
But, you know, it was kind of an awesome feeling.
Of course, here I was, not knowing what was going to be going on after that.
The Vietnam War was going on, and I knew that, well, I called my draft board.
I said, what's going to happen?
They said, well, next week we're going to reclassify you, and the month after that we're going to send you a notice.
And so I started shopping.
signed up with a recruiter for what they call the college op program and went in for basic and advanced training and then immediately into OCS.
And it was kind of a real eye-opening experience.
I tried to get jobs that summer to at least tide me over and the only job I ever got was working
for my cousin's husband at the opening of the Schlitz Brewery in Longview, Texas.
I never tapped as many kegs in a few days as I did then.
And nobody else would touch me.
I mean, they all wanted to know, you know, what's your status with the military?
And I couldn't even get anybody to agree to take me on on a limited basis.
at that time.
I thought I was going to be a public relations type person at that time and they gave me the old deal about, you know, come back when you've got your military finished and you've had four years experience and all of this kind of stuff and I'm sitting here saying, how am I going to get experience if nobody will hire me?
Commencement, was your name called and your hand shaking?
Oh, yes.
How important is that?
I think it's very important.
I think students who write off commencement and don't want to, you know, walk across the stage, I think they're missing something that means something to them.
I mean, it's not something I can't remember every little action that happened and everything that went on that day, but just the idea that I was able to cross that stage.
Of course, when I opened up my case and pulled my diploma out,
and found out they'd misspelled my name on it.
It didn't help a whole lot, but they got that fixed.
But it was a good feeling.
Of course, most people will tell you that they probably felt better the day they put their Aggie ring on than they did the day they got their degree.
Yeah.
Now, what did your ring cost?
Do you remember?
I believe it was about $36.50.
And how did you feel when you put it on?
Oh, it felt good.
It made me think about my brother
writing me when he put his ring on he said his hand felt so big he could hardly write this letter and uh... it it was a good feeling i mean that's you said i hate to admit it and it sounds a little childish to some people but getting that ring was what i felt like it was really all about i mean finishing up the next year or so and getting my degree just just didn't carry the same kind of weight uh...
Do you have any ring stories?
Many people, they've had an unusual situation where it was lost or they were somewhere and somebody spotted it.
The most exciting thing about my ring is that I have to wear it on my left hand because the day I got it resized to fit better on my right hand,
Some guy walked his dog right up to my dog.
My dog took a leap, and my finger sprung, and I've never been able to get it on that hand since then.
That's not very exciting.
But nobody on the other side of the world spotted an Aggie ring in Singapore or something or other.
I mean, we've always looked for them.
I don't remember any outstanding occasions of that.
That's what they're trying to collect those stories here about, and people keep sending them lost ring stories.
But they really want to know about rings that help them make a connection.
And I can't point to any particular event like that.
You mentioned Aggie spirit.
What is it or what are it that creates Aggie spirit?
Well, you can kind of put it in a category of how they define love to me one time.
They said, love is a feeling you feel that you're going to feel when you feel a feeling that you've never felt before.
The Aggie spirit, it's just a sense inside you that defines your place and your relationship to a group of other people.
That's about as close as I can come to it.
I mean, to me, Aggie spirit is just a whole kaleidoscope of images that go through my mind when somebody says, what's it like to be an Aggie?
I think about working on the bonfire.
I think about the day I picked up my ring and put it on.
I think about the musters I've been to and the silver tap ceremonies.
I think about the times when I've been in trouble and somebody helped me out.
I think about the times when somebody else had a problem and I had a chance to help them out.
That sort of thing is not limited to one Aggie to another Aggie.
And fortunately, a lot of Aggies practice that with other people they run into everywhere.
And I think that's the beauty of it.
I think you learn this feeling about caring for each other as Aggies.
And I think a lot of people then take that and do something with it that affects how other people think about Aggies.
Because I've seen letters from folks who
had car trouble on the side of the road and they were elderly and knew they were going to have a problem with this.
And lo and behold, this guy pulled over and stops and he said, I saw your Aggie sticker on the back of the car.
I'm an Aggie, can I help?
And I think about Jack Williams going to Tennessee and having car trouble.
He reached up in the back window of his car and picked up this directory that Buck Wires gave him and he starts calling people and the next thing you know he's surrounded by cars and people wanting to help him and wanting to feed him and wanting to just put them up whatever they needed to.
It's hard to talk about.
Do you think Aggie spirit among today's students is strong also?
I think it is.
You know, we talked when I was in school about the two percenters, and I think we've always going to have those like with any other group.
And I think, unfortunately, with a larger student body, that two percent ends up maybe becoming a lot larger group of people than we'd like to think about.
But it's possible to go through A&M and not be touched by any of it.
And some people do.
With some of them, it might be because they're so involved in their academic program that they just don't want anything else to get in the way of that, and they won't let anything interfere with it, and that's good.
But I think they and other people who do that miss out.
For whatever reason they do that, they lose something that they could pick up here and take with them.
And the majority, yes, I think still have it.
I get excited.
I've got a niece and nephew in school now.
One's a junior and one's a freshman.
And I get around those kids and their friends, and it's just in the air.
It's just a vibration almost, a feeling that, hey, these people care about each other.
All right.
You made a point a while ago that I certainly share, that it's a series of shared experiences.
maybe midnight yelp practice, maybe fish camp, football games maybe.
Every one of those has some effect on it.
Being an Aggie is, you remember the good things and the bad things.
I mean, you remember that test that you should have made a better grade on.
You remember that one that you did make a good grade on.
You remember stopping to pet reveille when you walked to class.
You remember somebody making that extra effort to be there to just give you a little encouragement.
Maybe they weren't there for any other purpose.
but they were there to let you know they cared about what happened to you.
And every one of those little experiences dills, and that's the Aggie spirit.
All right, I don't have many questions left.
We've chewed up a lot of time.
What did it mean to your life that you went to Texas A&M?
It meant everything to my life.
I probably would not have guessed that I would have ended up coming back here and spending as much time as I have.
I look at the predecessors in my job, most of them were here maybe two, maybe three years.
I've been here going on 29 years right now, and I just fell into something that I liked, and I was lucky.
I kind of laugh when I think about how I got the job.
I mean, and I'm pretty honest in telling people this, that Buck Wires went through a list of journalism graduates and people who were working in the field of journalism, and all of those either had decent paying jobs or jobs that they just liked enough that they didn't want to leave them, and he was left with me.
I didn't make as much money working on a newspaper as some of those other people, so I was very much interested in moving for a monetary reason.
But I found out after I got here that there were a lot of other reasons I needed to be back up here.
And now I understand, looking back on it, why I get those phone calls from people who say, hey, are there any jobs in my field up there?
I want to come back to Aggieland.
Next to last question.
Let's make believe that somebody walks up to you and hands you a million-dollar check with one requirement.
You must pass it to Texas A&M, but you can decide what it would be used for.
If you could make a big gift to A&M, what would you want them to do with your gift?
Well, I'm assuming it could be split up into more than one use.
Anything you want to... Of course, I think, you know, various types of scholarships is one use of it.
We're making a lot of headway right now in academic circles, in gaining chairs and professorships and all.
You know, might even want to add one or two of those to it.
But the thing I would want to put money into, I think,
would be into some of the support operations of A&M that are so meaningful to the school overall and to the students.
I think in terms of things like the University Relations Office that does amazing jobs on a shoestring.
I think about the archives, Dave Chapman, I'd want to put money into that.
Definitely they need a lot of help over there because
The thing about it is they don't need help just to do what they're doing now.
They need help so they can do all of those other things they can't find time to do.
And that's what I would want to do with it.
And, of course, there are probably some student life programs and things that are very deserving of support.
But we're doing an amazing job, I think, of collecting money for those kind of programs.
But I think some of the basic offices that handle things for A&M,
Student health services probably would be a good place to give some support to.
Perhaps more facilities if you could add either equipment or other things to the student center that would allow more people to participate and do things.
We pour a lot of money into brick and mortar and that's important.
both the university president's office and our office has been talking in different aspects at some time about some sort of open-air pavilion, both for use of students and maybe for use of former student gatherings on special weekends and things.
And they've done all the stuff with the student area out by Easterwood Airport, and I think those things need to be improved on.
But I'd like to help some of the people
whose main job is to help everybody.
When I first came here, Photo Services operated on a deal where they got, I think it was like one percent or maybe one-tenth of one percent of every department's budget that allowed them to purchase supplies and to budget for covering different events photographically.
And they've put them on a strict business footing over there to the point where I think we're missing a lot of things that ought to be cataloged and ought to be photographed.
And I would like to see some help in that area.
But those areas that I'm most familiar with them and university relations are ones I definitely want to help.
All right, I've got one more question that I know of.
Have we left anything out that you had on your high agenda?
I don't think of anything.
All right.
Then my last question is, what feelings do you have for Texas A&M in your heart today, now?
Well, one of my biggest concerns for A&M right now is the fact that we've grown so large and by trying to increase academic stature, we've become
a great deal more selective other than the state's mandate that the top 10 percent of the high school classes can get admitted.
I'm afraid we're overlooking a lot of the kind of students and people that have made A&M what it is.
And you look back through our history, some of the people that have had the most impact and been most important to this place are people who probably
barely scraped by in the grades, but they had the perseverance to do it.
So they weren't selected for their academic achievements and necessarily for their leadership positions they had before they got to A&M.
They were given a chance, and they made a lot out of that chance.
I think there's a lot of people out there that I hate to see us sending them off to other schools.
And while I think academic credentials and stature are important,
I just don't want to see us overlook this critical area and that's that do we want people moving into leadership positions in this state and nation because they either had privilege or they were just happened to be outstanding students in high school where some people find it very easy to make grades or are we going to lose those people that
because they didn't have much and because they had to work extra hard to get what they got while they were here decided that was important and made something out of themselves and decided that was important to help other people do the same thing.
I wonder how many of these people that are graduating in the last five, ten years around here are going to still be here helping us do more things down the road.
I'm afraid we're going to lose a lot of them because
They didn't have the involvement when they were here, and they didn't have the struggle.